= ActionmailerX509

petRUShka, Fabien Penso

== DESCRIPTION

This plugin allows you to send X509 signed and\or crypted mails with Rails 3 ActionMailer. If you want to sign mails with Rails 2, you should use the original plugin: https://github.com/penso/actionmailer_x509

It has been tested with Rails 3.0.3.

== Creation of the certificates

(1) Generate your own Certificate Authority (CA).

  openssl genrsa -des3 -out ca.key 4096
  openssl req -new -x509 -days 365 -key ca.key -out ca.crt

(2) Generate a server key and request for signing (csr).

  Note : use your email address for the Common Name (CN) field

  openssl genrsa -des3 -out server.key 4096
  openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr

(3) Sign the certificate signing request (csr) with the self-created
    certificate authority (CA) that you made earlier.

  openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in server.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -set_serial 01 -out server.crt

(3 bis) or self sign your certificate with the same key.

  openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in server.csr -signkey server.key -out server.crt

(4) Compute all thoses files into a PCKS#12 file (so you can include it in your mailer):

  openssl pkcs12 -export -in server.crt -inkey server.key -certfile ca.key -name "My Cert" -out name-cert.p12

== Extracting the files from a PKCS#12 file

If you have a PKCS#12 file, usualy named .p12, you can extract the required files with
the following commands.

(1) Extract the private key

  openssl pkcs12 -in file_input.p12 -clcerts -nocerts -out file_out.key -nodes

(2) Extract the certificate

  openssl pkcs12 -in file_input.p12 -clcerts -nokeys -out file_out.crt -nodes

Please note the -nodes to leave the private key uncrypted, use -des if you wish
to protect it.

== INSTALLING THE PLUGIN

Put this line in your Gemfile

    gem 'actionmailer_x509'

== USING THE PLUGIN

If you wish to send a signed email you just need to put new informations in
your ActionMailer model.

    class FooMailer < ActionMailer::Base

      def sending_method(email, from , subject = "Empty subject for signed")
        # If you want to sign the mail
        x509_sign  true
        x509_sign_cert  "certs/yourwebsite.crt"
        x509_sign_key   "certs/yourwebsite.key"
        # In case your certificate has a passphrase
        x509_sign_passphrase "my passphrase for the certificate"
        # If you want to crypt the mail
        x509_crypt  true
        x509_crypt_cert  "certs/crypt.crt"
        # In case you want to set non DES cipher
        x509_crypt_cipher "AES-128-CBC"

        mail(:subject => subject, :to => email, :from => from)
      end

You can also specify the certificate and key in your environment file:

    ActionMailer::Base.default_x509_sign = true
    ActionMailer::Base.default_x509_cert = "certs/server.crt"
    ActionMailer::Base.default_x509_key  = "certs/server.key"
    ActionMailer::Base.default_x509_crypt = true
    ActionMailer::Base.default_x509_crypt_cert = "certs/crypt.crt"

== USING TEST

You can benchmark the plugin with:

  rake actionmailer_x509:performance_test

Send yourself a signed mail with:

  rake actionmailer_x509:send_test

Verify the plugin generates valid signature

  rake actionmailer_x509:verify_signature

Generate a signed mail in a local file

  rake actionmailer_x509:generate_mail

== REQUIREMENTS

 * Ruby 1.8 or later
 * Rails 3.0 or later
 * OpenSSL 0.9.8e or later and Ruby/OpenSSL 1.8.6.36 or later

== Mail User Agent tested

We checked with the following MUA for making sure the signed mails are
readable.

 * Mutt 1.5: OK
 * Outlook 2007: OK
 * iPhone: The message appears without the signature but no other problem
 * Thunderbird 5.0: OK
 * Evolution 2.12: OK
 * Apple Mail.app: OK
 * Google Mail: A file smime.p3s appears as attachment
 * Yandex Mail: A file smime.p3s appears as attachment
 * Opera Mail: A file smime.p3s appears as attachment

== AUTHORS

Porting to Rails 3\\Mail from Rails 2\\Tmail, adding crypting and wrap code into the gem was done by petRUShka <petrushkin@yandex.ru>.

Original development for Rails 2.0.1 was done by Fabien Penso <fabien.penso@conovae.com> from
CONOVAE http://www.conovae.com for Dimelo http://www.dimelo.fr

Special thanks to Geal[http://stackoverflow.com/users/203955/geal] for noticing on content-id error.

This code is under the BSD license.

== LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011, petRUShka, 2008, Fabien Penso

All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the University of California, Berkeley nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
